= Metrics

This extension enables metrics and A/B testing using the Vanity library (http://vanity.labnotes.org).

== Installation

Place the files for this extension within vendor/extensions/metrics in your Radiant application, and
restart your server.

Via git clone:

  git clone git://github.com/jemmyw/radiant-metrics-extension.git vendor/extensions/metrics

Via extension script:

  script/extension install metrics

Run `rake gems` after installation for required gems.

Now run:

* rake radiant:extensions:metrics:migrate
* rake radiant:extensions:metrics:update

== Configuration

The metrics extension comes bundled with a version of Vanity for active record. You can
specify to use the system version of Vanity:

* gem install vanity
* add Radiant::Config['metrics.use_gem'] = true to config/environment.rb

If you configure to use the system Vanity you must configure its Redis connection
in your environment file.

== Usage (page tags)

Create metrics and A/B tests under the new metrics tab in the Radiant admin.

Now you can do the following on your pages:

  <r:track name="Signup" />

This will increment a metric named Signup.

  <r:ab:test name="homepage test">
    <r:a>Half your users will be shown this text</r:a>
    <r:b>The other half will be shown this text</r:b>
  </r:ab:test>

This will run the A/B test named "homepage test". Under the metrics dashboard tab you will
see the results for the test.

*Note:* using <r:track> or <r:ab:test> will switch off caching for that page.

== Usage (Javascript)

You can also track metrics via Javascript. Using the Javascript tracking allows the page
to be cached. Include the following in your layout:

  <script type="text/javascript" src="/javascripts/metrics-min.js"></script>

Now you can track a metric via AJAX javascript calls:

  <a href="http://example.com/signup" onclick="Metrics.track('signup');">Sign up now!</a>